Ssl socket server (#2)
ssproessig/qt5-examples: SslUsage/README.md

            Not After : Jul 31 19:20:05 2020 GMT
        Subject: C = DE, ST = Berlin, L = Berlin, O = github.com/ssproessig, CN = server, emailAddress = ssproessig@gmail.com
        Subject Public Key Info:
            Public Key Algorithm: rsaEncryption
                RSA Public-Key: (4096 bit)
                Modulus:
....
                Exponent: 65537 (0x10001)
    Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
 ...
```

#### for the first client
- repeat the server steps as above, but
  - use `client_01.key` as file name of the private key, use `client_01` as passphrase
  - use `client_01.req` as file name for certificate request, `client_01` as CN
  - use `client_01.pem` as certificate name - and omit `-CAcreateserial`, as the serial file already
    exists

#### for the other CA's client
- repeat the server steps as above, but
  - use `Other_client_01.key` as file name of the private key, use `client_01` as passphrase
  - use `Other_client_01.req` as file name for certificate request, `client_01` as CN
  - use `Other_client_01.pem` as certificate name - and omit `-CAcreateserial`, as the serial file
    already exists, and use the `Other_CA` to sign

### Caveats

> - `openssl` may try to use a not existing `openssl.conf` and fail - use environment variable

Author: ```suggestion
- `openssl` may try to use a non-existent `openssl.conf` and fail - use environment variable
```

  `OPENSSL_CONF` to point to the correct one ... and think about to things like _Country Name_,
  _Locality Name_ etc. there directly to avoid typing it over and over again
- Qt probably uses `openssl` as SSL/TLS plugin library - hence the applications will compile and
  run, but SSL will not work, unless `libcrypto-1_1-x64.dll` and `libssl-1_1-x64.dll` are on the

>   `PATH` - hint: if the applications fail to load the `key` and `cert` at startup this is probably
>   what's hapenning

Author: Maybe try to make the hint stick out a bit more.
E.g.:
```suggestion
  `PATH`. (Hint: if the applications fail to load the `key` and `cert` at startup, this is probably
  what's happening.)
```

        sslConfig.setPrivateKey(key);
        sslConfig.setLocalCertificate(cert);

        // verify the connection peer's certificate - fail connection if it fails
        // note: QSslSocket::QueryPeer will only warn if the peer verification failed - discouraged
        sslConfig.setPeerVerifyMode(QSslSocket::VerifyPeer);
    }
    s.setSslConfiguration(sslConfig);
}
```

**Note:** for demonstration purposes we want to easily load certificates and keys. For that they are
compiled into the applications using _Qt's resource system_. Refer to
[ClientCredentials.qrc](SecureEchoService/ClientCredentials.qrc) and
[ServerCredentials.qrc](SecureEchoService/ServerCredentials.qrc) to see where resource files `:/CA`
and `:/Certificate` etc. resolve to.

#### Secured Client
The client basically uses the same logic as the raw echo client, but
1. replaces `QTcpSocket` with `QSslSocket`
2. configures the socket with `setupSslConfigurationFor(...)` as well
3. uses `connectToHostEncrypted(...)` instead of `connectToHost(...)` and waits for the encrypted
   connection to be established

#### Execution
##### Step 1 - start the server
first we start the server into its own window
```

> > F:\2019\qt5ex>start SslUsage\SecureEchoService\Debug\SslUsage.SecureServer.exe

Author: Now, you're just messing with me...

```suggestion
>start SslUsage\SecureEchoService\Debug\SslUsage.SecureServer.exe
```

...
20200701_215310.172  D  loadKey:28  error loading key? false
20200701_215310.176  I  loadKey:29  Loaded key:  QSslKey(PrivateKey, RSA, 4096)
20200701_215310.179  D  loadCert:38  error loading cert? false
20200701_215310.182  I  loadCert:39  Loaded certificate:  QSslCertificate("1", "5c:57:ab:ab:07:39:b2:23:37:f7:55:36:a8:9c:2c:50:0a:7a:67:4c", "Ve7Pt6ETDb4w2QBhDhG1ug==", "CA", "server", QMap(), QDateTime(2020-07-01 19:20:05.000 UTC Qt::UTC), QDateTime(2020-07-31 19:20:05.000 UTC Qt::UTC))
20200701_215310.201  D  main:106  secure echo server listening on QHostAddress("127.0.0.1") : 9876 !
```
ensure

- the server is listening
- neither `key` not `cert` had an error loading

##### Step 2 - connect the client w/ verification failing
```

> F:\2019\qt5ex>SslUsage\SecureEchoService\Debug\SslUsage.SecureClient.exe

Author: ```suggestion
>SslUsage\SecureEchoService\Debug\SslUsage.SecureClient.exe
```

20200701_215441.795  D  dumpCert:71  digest:  "29d034ad4cdee1a73f69c90fbfc81719"
20200701_215441.799  D  dumpCert:72  serial:  "32643a35343a64613a61353a61643a61613a61623a63653a62353a32333a64313a61333a30373a66363a64313a39633a30313a35313a66663a3262"
20200701_215441.807  D  dumpCert:73  ---subject
20200701_215441.809  D  dumpCert:74  CN:  "CA"
20200701_215441.812  D  dumpCert:75  ORG: "github.com/ssproessig"
20200701_215441.817  D  dumpCert:76  ---issuer
20200701_215441.819  D  dumpCert:77  CN:  ("CA")
20200701_215441.829  D  dumpCert:78  ORG: ("github.com/ssproessig")
20200701_215441.832  D  dumpCert:79
20200701_215441.834  C  main:68  unable to connect securely
```

ensure neither `key` not `cert` had an error loading and note
- handshake failed with `The host name did not match any of the valid hosts for this certificate`
- the certificate chain is dumped, first the `server` certificated, then our `CA`

Why did it fail? The server's log will not help us
```
20200701_215737.894  D  main::::operator():78  new client connected from "127.0.0.1" : 53010
20200701_215738.013  D  main::::()::::operator():91  client from "127.0.0.1" : 53010 disconnected
```

> obviously the client terminated the connection. Again, why Because per default we connect to

Author: This effect only really works when speaking. When written, it's kinda messy.

```suggestion
obviously the client terminated the connection. This happens, because per default we connect to
```

> obviously the client terminated the connection. This happens, because per default we connect to
> `127.0.0.1` (where our server is listening per default). But this is not the server's certificate

Author: ```suggestion
obviously the client terminated the connection. This happens, because by default we connect to
`127.0.0.1` (where our server is listening by default). But this is not the server's certificate
```

> obviously the client terminated the connection. Again, why Because per default we connect to
> `127.0.0.1` (where our server is listening per default). But this is not the server's certificate

Author: ```suggestion
obviously the client terminated the connection. Again, why Because by default we connect to
`127.0.0.1` (where our server is listening by default). But this is not the server's certificate
```

_Common Name_, it says `server`.

##### Step 3 - connect the client w/ verification succeeding
Hence we need to make sure to either have the server's IP address as _Common Name_ (discouraged) or
resolve `server` to where our server is currently running. Adding `127.0.0.1 server` to
`C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts` solves this for a test.

Afterwards executing the client again leads to
```

> F:\2019\qt5ex>SslUsage\SecureEchoService\Debug\SslUsage.SecureClient.exe --host server

Author: ```suggestion
>SslUsage\SecureEchoService\Debug\SslUsage.SecureClient.exe --host server
```

20200701_220121.360  I  loadKey:29  Loaded key:  QSslKey(PrivateKey, RSA, 4096)
20200701_220121.366  I  main:58  connecting to "server" : 9876 ...
20200701_220121.400  I  main:62  we have secure communication
20200701_220121.402  D  main:63  session cipher QSslCipher(name=TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384, bits=256, proto=TLSv1.3)
20200701_220121.414  D  main::::operator():54  received:  "Welcome to SecureEchoServer!\nhello from secure client!"
```
and in the server
```
20200701_220121.382  D  main::::operator():78  new client connected from "127.0.0.1" : 53042
20200701_220121.409  D  main::::()::::operator():85  echoing back:  "hello from secure client!"
20200701_220121.418  D  main::::()::::operator():91  client from "127.0.0.1" : 53042 disconnected
```

So, now our client verified that it was talking to the correct server - done.

Watching the exchange with Wireshark we can see the overall TLS v1.3 exchange

![wireshark_tlsv1.3_exchange](wireshark_tlsv1.3_exchange.png)

##### Step 4 - connect the client w/ a valid certificate from Other_CA
Finally we test using a valid certificate that was signed by `Other_CA`, which is not "our" CA that
server and client share:

```

> F:\2019\qt5ex>SslUsage\SecureEchoService\Debug\SslUsage.SecureClient.exe --host server --cert ":/Other_Certificate" --key ":/Other_Key"

Author: ```suggestion
>SslUsage\SecureEchoService\Debug\SslUsage.SecureClient.exe --host server --cert ":/Other_Certificate" --key ":/Other_Key"
```
